OSDOCS-16181 [NETOBSERV] Release notes 1.10 (#99081)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-10-new-features-enhancements.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * network_observability/network-observability-release-notes-1-10.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-10-new-features-enhancements_{context}"]
= Network Observability Operator 1.10 new features and enhancements

[role="_abstract"]

> The Network Observability Operator 1.10 release enhances security, improves performance, and introduces new CLI/UI tools for better network flow management.

Author: Yes, the Network Observability CLI UI is a thing, it just isn't documented in prod docs. After some discussion with engineering, a Jira was created to add Network Observability CLI UI content after the 1.10 release.

[id="network-policy-updates_{context}"]
== Network policy updates
The Network Observability Operator now supports configuring both ingress and egress network policies to control pod traffic. This enhancement improves security.

> By default, the `spec.NetworkPolicy.enable` specification is now set to `true`. This means that if you use Loki or Kafka, it is recommended that you deploy the Loki Operator and Kafka instances into dedicated namespaces. This ensures that the network policies can be configured correctly to allow communication between all components.

Reviewer: Do you need to link to related documentation here?

//check if deploying Loki and Kafka in dedicated namespaces is included in the updated network policy, "Configuring network policy". Might need to add an IMPORTANT admonition to that section.

[id="network-observability-operator-cli-ui-updates_{context}"]

> == Network Observability Operator CLI UI updates

Reviewer: I commented on "CLI UI" in an earlier comment. This is still throwing me off, but it looks like apparently it's a thing? Still trying to wrap my mind around how a CLI has a UI.

Author: Network Observability CLI has a UI, and the UI is not currently documented. Documenting the CLI UI is outside the scope of this PR and is being handled by a separate Jira issue.

This release brings the following new features and updates to the Network Observability Operator CLI (`oc netobserv`) user interface (UI):

*Table view enhancements*

* Customizable columns: The `Manage Columns` button lets you select which columns to display and tailor the table to your needs.
* Smart filtering: Live filters now include auto-suggestions, making it easier to select the right keys and values.
* Packet preview: When capturing packets, click a row to inspect the `pcap` content directly.

*Terminal-based line charts enhancements*

* Metrics visualization: Real-time graphs are rendered directly in the CLI.
* Panel selection: Choose from predefined views or customize view using the `Manage Panels` popup to selectively view charts of specific metrics.

[id="network-observability-console-improvements_{context}"]

> == Network observability console improvements

Author: It is only "Network Observability" when it is referring to the "Network Observability Operator." Otherwise, it is "network observability."

There is a new view in the network observability console plugin to configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource (CR). This new view:

* Makes it easier to configure the `FlowCollector` CR.
* Introduces a resource footprint calculator.

> * Increases the visibility of issues such as configuration warnings or high metrics cardinality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Gain increased visibility of issues such as configuration warnings or high metrics cardinality.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * network_observability/network-observability-release-notes-1-10.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-10-new-features-enhancements_{context}"]
= Network Observability Operator 1.10 new features and enhancements

[role="_abstract"]
The Network Observability Operator 1.10 release enhances security, improves performance, and introduces new CLI/UI tools for better network flow management.

[id="network-policy-updates_{context}"]
== Network policy updates

> The Network Observability Operator now supports configuring both ingress and egress network policies to control pod traffic. This enhancement improves security and ensures you collect only the network flow data you need.

Reviewer 2: not sure what is meant exactly by " and ensures you collect only the network flow data you need"
I'd remove that?

* Packet preview: When capturing packets, click a row to inspect the `pcap` content directly.

*Terminal-based line charts enhancements*

* Metrics visualization: Real-time graphs are rendered directly in the CLI.
* Panel selection: Choose from predefined views or build your own dashboard using the `Manage Panels` popup.

[id="network-observability-console-improvements_{context}"]
== Network observability console improvements
There is a new view in the network observability console plugin to configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource (CR). This new view:

* Makes it easier to configure the `FlowCollector` CR.
* Introduces a resource footprint calculator.
* Increases the visibility of issues such as configuration warnings or high metrics cardinality.

[id="network-observability-operator-flowcollector-api-version-update-v1beta2_{context}"]
== Network Observability Operator FlowCollector API version update to v1beta2
With Network Observability Operator 1.10, the `FlowCollector` custom resource (CR) API version has been updated from `v1alpha` to `v1beta2`.

[id="network-observability-operator-performance-improvements_{context}"]
== Performance improvements

> Network Observability Operator 1.10 has improved the performance and memory footprint of the Operator, especially visible on large clusters.

Author: It came from the original release note text : Improved performance and memory footprint of the operator, especially visible on large clusters

> Network Observability Operator 1.10 has improved the performance and memory footprint of the Operator, especially visible on large clusters.

Reviewer 3: any specific issue that mentions it?

> Network Observability Operator 1.10 has improved the performance and memory footprint of the Operator, especially visible on large clusters.

Reviewer 2: this is https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-2184
